I"	<p>As I went on my daily sanity walk today, I saw that, following the city of Boston’s recommendations, most people out and about were wearing masks. Dog walkers had their faces covered with bandanas, joggers gasped for air through surgical masks. Even the kids on scooters rumbling past were responsibly covered in sterile blue plastics. This was heartening to see of course; it seems symbolic of a kind of collective social responsibility that has been absent from this country for so long, and it makes me hopeful that it could make a return before things have gone too far for it to matter. But I can’t shake the feeling that the covering of faces is symbolic of a permanent change in how we form and engage in social relations.</p>

<p>What the virus is revealing to us is that perhaps socialization is not something we require any more, at least not socialization in the traditional sense. All we require to stave off loneliness (for the most part) is socialization that is mediated through technology: conversation mediated through masks. This shouldn’t come as a surprise to us; basement dwelling computer geeks have known this for decades. The trajectory of society towards the masked-social was set long before any contaminated bat soup was produced in Wuhan. Cartoonish ride-share apps, impersonal dating sites, the ironically named Mechanical Turk service (not to mention capitalism itself) were already busy abstracting away the humans from our lives.</p>

<p>But what has made the virus a particularly good accelerator of this tendency towards inhumanity is the presence of asymptomatic spreaders. Everyone is suspect, even ourselves. Common sense social relations are called into question; helping an old woman who has fallen could sentence her to a horrific death in the ICU. The act of harm and the intent to harm have become completely decoupled.</p>

<p>But perhaps that’s a bit of a mischaracterization, since it has always been the case that we don’t have the ability to decipher intent, even within ourselves (just ask Freud). Thus, it’s just that harm and the <em>appearance</em> of intent to harm have been decoupled. What the COVID crisis casts in a stark light is that the other is completely unknowable, and in many ways even our own selves are beyond comprehension. Friends, family, and coworkers could all be hiding monsters within them, and their knowledge of these monsters is completely irrelevant. The only way to protect oneself is to suppress the human and tolerate only the inhuman, to only engage with cyborgs both virtually (mediated by inhuman algorithms) and physically (while wearing masks which block human expression). By merging ever more completely with our machines (which bare themselves for our examination), we can more thoroughly pursue a politics of risk-reduction. The mouth cannot be sewn shut, but ever more tightly knit masks can be sewn.</p>

<p>This is not to say that these developments are a bad thing. In the case of COVID, it’s obviously necessary and deliberately forgoing safety precautions is morally reprehensible. Certainly the burgeoning solidarity in the US is cause for hope; components of a machine tend to work well together. All I can say is that things will never be the same. As a basement dwelling computer geek, I may even look forward to it.</p>
:ET